# Project Introduction

A startup called <b>Sparkify</b> want to analyze the data they have been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to.

The aim is to create a Postgres Database Schema and ETL pipeline to optimize queries for song play analysis.

# Project Description

In this project, I have to model data with Postgres and build and ETL pipeline using Python. On the database side, I have to define fact and dimension tables for a Star Schema for a specific focus. On the other hand, ETL pipeline would transfer data from files located in two local directories into these tables in Postgres using Python and SQL

# Project Dataset

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the [Million Song Dataset](http://millionsongdataset.com/). Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

> song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json

And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.

>> {"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}```


<b>Log Dataset</b>
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this [event simulator](https://github.com/Interana/eventsim) based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.
